What is web service
Services that can be accessed over network are called web services,

what are the difference between web service and web application?

1.web application consist it's own web pages which may designed through HTML,CSS,JS,JSP and every time it return those web pages dynamicaly

2.Web applications always use HTTP/HTTPS protocol whereas traditional web services use SOAP protocol. Recently REST is getting popularity that is an architecture style and almost all times run on HTTP/HTTPS protocol.

3.Web applications are not meant for reusability whereas this is one of the benefit of web services. A single web service can be used by different kinds of applications.

4.Web applications are capable to maintain user session, web services are stateless.

Where is web services does not consist web pages , it return raw data in form of JSON or XML(universal format) 

***json or xml data can be accessed by any technology, any server and from any platform

json :
    1.JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
    2.It was designed for human-readable data interchange.
    3.The filename extension is .json.
    4.JSON Internet Media type is application/json


JSON is easy to read and write.
It is a lightweight text-based interchange format.
JSON is language independent.

Example: Example of JSON to store single object
{
   "book": 
	
      {
         "id":"01",
         "language": "Java",
         "edition": "third",
         "author": "Herbert Schildt"
      }
   
}

Example of JSON to store multiple objects
{
   "book": [
	
      {
         "id":"01",
         "language": "Java",
         "edition": "third",
         "author": "Herbert Schildt"
      },
	
      {
         "id":"07",
         "language": "C++",
         "edition": "second",
         "author": "E.Balagurusamy"
      }
   ]
}


Webservices are divided into two category:
.SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol):
i.it defines standard xml format
ii.It defines the way to build web services
iii.we use WSDL(web service descripton language)
iv.it is protocol based
v.It restrict to produce only xml format


REST:
i.REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. It is developed by Roy Thomas Fielding who also developed HTTP

ii.REST is an architectural approach, not a protocol.

iii.It does not define the standard message exchange format. We can build REST services with both XML and JSON. JSON is more popular format with REST.


iv.The key abstraction is a resource in REST. A resource can be anything. It can be accessed through a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).

v.The resource has representations like XML, HTML, and JSON. The current state is captured by representational resource. When we request a resource, we provide the representation of the resource. The important methods of HTTP are:

GET: It reads a resource.
PUT: It updates an existing resource.
POST: It creates a new resource.
DELETE: It deletes the resource.

vi.HTTP also defines the following standard status code:

404: RESOURCE NOT FOUND
200: SUCCESS
201: CREATED
401: UNAUTHORIZED
500: SERVER ERROR


Advantages of RESTful:
A.RESTful web services are platform-independent.
B.It can be written in any programming language and can be executed on any platform.
C.It provides different data format like JSON, text, HTML, and XML.
D.These are reusable.
E.These are language neutral.







